=head1 NAME

App::Twirc::Manual - User guide and reference for Twirc


=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Twirc> is a twitter client.  More precisely, it is an IRC/Twitter gateway that
makes your favorite IRC client a twitter client.

=head1 FEATURES

=over 4

=item Follow friends timelines

=item Receive replies from friends and non-friends

=item Post status updates

=item Send and receive direct messages

=item Follow, un-follow, block, unblock, and use most other twitter commands

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

You can install C<twirc> just as you would any other CPAN distribution:

    cpan POE::Component::Server::Twirc

Or, you can download and unpack C<twirc>, then run it from a directory of your
choice without running C<make install>.  That's the way the author runs it.  If
you choose this option, run C<make> to install C<twirc>'s dependencies.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

C<Twirc> uses L<Config::Any>, so you can configure C<twirc> using XML, YAML,
JSON, Apache-style configuration, Windows INI file format, or even Perl code.

Here's a minimal configuration in YAML:

    irc_nickname: MyIRCNick
    twitter_username: my_email_address@example.com
    twitter_passward: secret
    twitter_screen_name: MyTwitterScreenName


=head2 REQUIRED CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=over 4

=item irc_nickname

The irc nickname used by the owning user. This is the nickname I<you> will use
when you connect to the C<twirc> IRC server.

=item twitter_username

The username (email address) used to authenticate with Twitter.  This is the ID
C<twirc> will use to authenticate with Twitter.

=item twitter_password

The password used to authenticate with Twitter.  This is the password C<twirc>
will use to authenticate with twitter.

=item twitter_screen_name

The user's Twitter screen name.  This is I<your> screen name on Twitter. It may
very well be the same as your C<irc_nickname>, but it certainly doesn't have to
be.

=back

=head2 OPTIONAL CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=over

=item irc_server_name

The name of the IRC server. Defaults to C<twitter.irc>.  Every IRC server has a
name.  The IRC server included with C<twirc> isn't intended to be accessed
publicly.  It is for your own personal use.  So, the name is not significant.

=item irc_server_port

The port number the IRC server binds to. Defaults to 6667.

=item irc_server_bindaddr

The local address to bind to. Defaults to all interfaces.  You probably want to
set this option to C<127.0.0.1>.  That will prevent others from attempting to
connect to your C<twirc> IRC server.

=item irc_mask

The IRC user/host mask used to restrict connecting users.  Defaults to C<*@127.0.0.1>.
If you run C<twirc> on a different system than your IRC client, you will need
to provide this configuration option with a suitable mask.

=item irc_password

Password used to authenticate to the IRC server.  If you don't provide this
option, no password will be required.  It adds a bit of security.  You may want
to set this option if other users have access to your system.

=item irc_botname

The name of the channel operator bot.  Defaults to C<tweeter>.  Select a name
that does not conflict with friends, followers, or your own IRC nick.

When running C<twirc>, you interact with a bot in the channel.  The bot carries
out commands on your behalf and provides feedback, particularly when there are
errors.

=item irc_botircname

Text to be used as the channel operator bot's IRC full name. Defaults to
C<"Your Friendly Twitter Agent">.  This is the name that will appear in
response to an IRC C</whois> command.

=item irc_channel

The name of the channel where your twitter friends' timelines appear.  This is
the channel where most of your interaction with C<twirc> occurs.  It defaults
to C<&twitter>.  The IRC convention for channels names is channels local to a
single server begin with C<&>.  Network channels begin with C<#>.  You can use
either to name, however C<&> is more appropriate.

=item twitter_retry

The number of seconds between polls for new status updates, replies, and direct
messages.  Defaults to 300 (5 minutes).  Twitter imposes a rate limit of 100
API calls per hour.  By default, after initial start up, twirc makes a single
API call every C<twitter_retry> seconds.  Adding L</"check_replies"> and
L</"check_direct_messages"> each add an additional API call.  Setting
C<twitter_retry> too low can cause twirc to exceed the rate limit and delay
receipt of messages.

Use the L</"rate_limit_status"> command to check your available API calls.

=item twitter_retry_on_error

The number of seconds to wait before retrying a failed twitter API call in the
polling loop. Defaults to 60 (1 minute).

=item twitter_alias

An alias to use for displaying incoming status updates from the owning user.
This is necessary if the user's IRC nickname and Twitter screen name are the
same.  Defaults to C<me>.

With the default value C<me>, when C<twirc> reads a status message in your
timeline from your Twitter screen name, it will use C<me> in place of your
Twitter screen name in the channel.

=item echo_posts

If false, posts sent by C<twirc> will not be redisplayed when polling the
timeline. Defaults to 0 (false).

This option in off, be default, to prevent some unnecessary noise in the
channel.  When you post a new status message with C<twirc>, you will see your
post command, including your status message in the channel.  Tweeter, the bot,
will send your status update to twitter, and then set the channel topic to your
message.  If your IRC client displays notices, you will see your message a
second time in status change.  If this option is set to true, you will see it a
third time, when C<twirc> next polls Twitter for new status messages.

So, why would you ever want C<echo_posts> on?  C<Twirc> polls Twitter for new
messages every 5 minutes, by default.  So, there may be messages waiting and
other messages received after your status update, but before C<twirc> checks
for new messages again.  With C<echo_posts> on, you will see your message
again, in chronological order with the rest of the incoming messages.

=item favorites_count

How many favorites candidates to display for selection. Defaults to 3.

When you use the L</"favorite"> command, a list of recent status from the
friend your a favoriting are displayed for you to choose from.  This option
tell C<twirc> how many of those messages to display.

=item truncate_to

When displaying a list tweets for selection, for example, in response to the
L</"favorite"> command, they will be truncated to this length to avoid
cluttering the screen with long messages that wrap. Defaults to 60.

=item check_replies

Defaults to 0 (off).  If set to 1 (on), checks for @replies when polling for
friends' timeline updates and merges them with normal status updates.
Normally, only replies from friends you are following are displayed, just like
your home page on Twitter.  This provides the display of @replies from users
not followed.

C<check_replies> adds an API call, counted against Twitter's rate limit
every L</"twitter_retry"> seconds.

(This also has the effect of adding senders of @replies to the channel,
even though they are not followed.)

=item check_direct_messages

If true, checks for direct messages in each timeline polling cycle.

C<check_direct_messages> adds an API call, counted against Twitter's rate limit
every L</"twitter_retry"> seconds.

=item log_channel

If specified, twirc will post log messages to this channel.  If you set this
option to C<&log>, then you can join the C<&log> channel and see the copious
debug messages that C<twirc> generates.  This may be useful for trouble
shooting or problem reporting.

=item state_file

File used to store state information between sessions, including last message read for
replies, direct messages, and timelines.

By default, C<twirc> does not save any state information between runs.  When
you start C<twirc> it grabs the most recent 20 messages in the timeline and
displays them, even if they are the same 20 messages it displayed last time
your ran C<twirc>.

If you use L</"check_direct_messages"> you will definitely want to use a state
file so that you do not receive the same batch of direct messages every time
you start C<twirc>.

If you do provide a C<state_file> name, C<twirc> will save the last message ID
it processed of each type (friends_timeline, user_timeline, replies, and direct
messages).  It won't redisplay messages it as already displayed on a previous
run.

C<Twirc> will still only show the most recent 20 messages on restart, though.
The C<state_file> option just prevents redisplaying messages already seen.

=back

=head1 USING

To use C<twirc> you first need to start the server:

    bin/twirc -c twirc.yml -b

The C<-b> option runs C<twirc> in the background.  Drop the C<-b> to see
copious log messages to STDERR.

Next, connect to the server from your IRC client.  I use C<irssi>:

    /connect localhost 6667 secret

where C<secret> is the password set in the config file with option
L</"irc_password">.  Your IRC client may use different commands.

On connection, C<twirc> will automatically join you to the configured channel.
The default C<&twitter> will be assumed, here.

Your friends will be automatically joined to the channel.  Friends who are
also followers are given voice as a visual clue.  In C<irssi> they appear with
plus sign (+) in front of their names.

To post a new status update, use the L</"post"> command:

    post My first tweet from twirc!

In general, you enter a command followed by its arguments, if any, as a public
message in the channel.  There's a handy exception to that rule for sending
replies.  An entry that begins with a nick name, followed by a colon is treated
as a reply.  E.g.:

    twirc: you make twitter usable!

Is a shortcut for:

    post @twirc you make twitter usable!

By default, C<twirc> checks for updates every 5 minutes.  You can have it check
immediately using the L</"refresh"> command:

    refresh

C<Twirc> will check for messages immediately, then again every 5 minutes.

Use IRC private messaging to send direct messages.  In irssi:

    /msg friend Watch out, I'm right behind you!

The C<twirc> server stops when you disconnect.  This isn't normal IRC behavior,
but C<twirc> isn't a normal IRC server.  Its only purpose is to interface with
Twitter on your behalf and server no useful purpose when you're not connected.

=head1 COMMAND REFERENCE

=over 4

=item post status

Post a status update.  E.g.,

    post Now cooking tweets with twirc!

=item follow twitter_screen_name

Follow a new Twitter user.  This creates a friend relationship and adds the
friend to the channel.

=item unfollow twitter_screen_name

Stop following a Twitter friend. This destroys the friend relationship and
removes the friend from the channel.

=cut

=item block twitter_screen_name

Blocks the Twitter user from receiving your Twitter feed.

=item unblock twitter_screen_name

Stop blocking a Twitter user.

=item whois twitter_user

Displays information about Twitter user. C<twitter_user> can be either a screen
name or email address.

=item notify on|off twitter_screen_name...

Turns device notifications on or off for the list of one or more Twitter
friends.  The list is space separated.

=item favorite friend [ count ]

Mark a friend's tweet as a favorite.  Optionally, specify the number of tweets
to display for selection with C<count>. (C<count> defaults to 3. The default
can be changed with the L</"favorites_count"> option.)

=item check_replies on|off

Turns reply checking on or off.  See L</"check_replies"> in configuration.

=item check_direct_messages on|off

Turns direct message checking on or off.  See L</"check_direct_messages"> in configuration.

=item rate_limit_status

Displays information about the remaining number of API requests available in
the current hour. The C<rate_limit_status> command does not count against the
limit, itself.

=item help

Display a simple help message listing the available command names.

=back

=head1 TIPS AND TRICKS

If you're following a particularly noisy friend, you can of course
L</"unfollow"> her.  Alternatively, you can use your IRC client's features to
ignore the user.  In irssi:

    /ignore LoudMouth ALL
    /ignore -except -pattern @YourName LoudMouth ALL

Now, you won't hear from LoudMouth unless she @replies you, and she won't know
you're ignoring her (unless she reads this tip!).

=head1 SUPPORT

C<Twirc> is free open source software with no warranty of any kind.  That said,
it's used by some competent perl codes who may be able to help if you have
trouble.  Try the #twirc channel at L<irc.perl.org>.

The code repository with the development branch is located at
L<http://github.com/semifor/twirc>.  New features, and bug fixes appear there
before they hit CPAN, so check the commit log there to see if a problem you've
found has been addressed.  And feel free to use the development branch.

Finally, follow C<twirc> on twitter.  Changes and updates are announced there.
Sending an @reply to C<twirc> I<may> get a reply, bit C<twirc>'s feed isn't
closely followed at the moment.  That's waiting for a new C<twirc> feature to
allow multiple Twitter feeds.

=head1 AUTHOR

Marc Mims <marc@questright.com>

I'm C<semifor> on twitter and IRC.
